=Flow Details=

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

*<font color=red>Note the following is the flow of the GUI.</font>*

==Launcher==
 # Check if there is any downloaded patches recorded in [ClientSettings client settings file]. If there isn't any, go to step 6.
 # Start patching. Do patching and store the patched and newly created files temporaily in the *update* folder.
 # Do replacement/movement on all files using the files stored in the *update* folder. If there is more patches to apply, go to step 2 and do patching.
 # If there is any file patching failed due to file locking, use the [Overview#3.4._Self-Updater Self-Updater] to do patching on those files.
 # Validate all files to make sure the client has all the files that the software needs.
 # Launch the software.

(If the update is interrupted by any means (e.g. power off), it can resume the update by reading the update progress log.)

==Downloader==
 # Check if there is any update for the [PatchesCatalog patches catalog] available. If there isn't any, go to step 7.
 # Download the updated [PatchesCatalog catalog].
 # Determine the minimum size of patches to download to update the software to highest possible version. If there isn't any patch to download, go to step 7.
 # Download available patches. Determine if there is any partly downlaoded patches and do resume download.
 # Validate the file size and checksum of the patches. If any failed, download the patch again until 5 times reached.
 # Record the downloaded patches in the [ClientSettings client settings file].
 # Finished.
