=Simple Example=

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

==Introduction==
In this example, we are going integrate the Software Updater into [http://www.sweethome3d.com Sweet Home 3D] and make a patch from version 3.2 to 3.3.

==Video==
<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RAwjiZDN6rw"/>

==Preparation==
 # Download the software updater from [http://code.google.com/p/software-updater/downloads here].

==Integrate the updater to the software==
 # Open the software's root folder.
 # Copy <b>Launcher.jar</b> and <b>PatchDownloader.jar</b> into it.
 # Create a new folder named <b>update</b> and a file named <b>client.xml</b>.
 # Put the following content into <b>client.xml</b>.
{{{
<root>
  <version>{software version}</version>
  <storage-path>update/</storage-path>
  <launch>
    <type>command</type>
    <command>{path to executable}</command>
  </launch>
  <catalog>
    <url>{HTTP URL to the catalog}</url>
  </catalog>
</root>
}}}
 # Execute the <b>Launcher.jar</b> to see if it can launch your software correctly or not.

===Common Questions===
 * [AdvancedTutorial#How_do_I_launch_jar_instead_of_executable? How do I launch jar instead of executable?]
 * [AdvancedTutorial#How_do_I_use_it_with_Java_executable_wrapper_(launch4j,_JSmooth How do I use it with Java executable wrapper launch4j, JSmooth etc.)?]

==Create patches==
 # Move the <b>client.xml</b> out from the software folder first, see [AdvancedTutorial#What_kind_of_files_should_not_be_included_in_the_patch? here] for reason.
 # Find the build.jar and execute {{{java -jar build.jar -patch $oldVersionFolder $newVersionFolder --from $currentVersionNumber --to $newVersionNumber --output upgrade.patch}}}
 # Get the SHA256 checksum of the file: {{{java -jar build.jar -sha256 upgrade.patch -o checksum.txt}}}
 # Create a file named <b>catalog.xml</b> and put the following content into it:
{{{
<patches>
  <patch id="1">
    <version>
      <from>{old version number}</from>
      <to>{new version number}</to>
    </version>
    <download>
      <url>{HTTP URL to the patch}</url>
      <checksum>{checksum of the patch from checksum.txt}</checksum>
      <length>{size of the patch (in byte)}</length>
    </download>
  </patch>
</patches>
}}}
 # Upload the <b>catalog.xml</b> and <b>upgrade.patch</b> to your web hosting.

===Common Questions===
 * [AdvancedTutorial#How_do_I_add_more_patches_for_other_versions? How do I add more patches for other versions?]

==Client update the software==
 # Execute the <b>PatchDownloader.jar</b> to download the patch.
 # After the downloads completed, execute the <b>Launcher.jar</b> to update and launch the software.

===Common Questions===
 * [AdvancedTutorial#I_don't_want_the_client_to_launch_the_downloader_manually, I don't want the client to launch the downloader manually, how do I integrate it into the software?]
